# soft
## Hybrid Quantum-Classical Recurrent Neural Networks
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2510.25557v2
- **Authors**: ['Wenduan Xu']
- **Abstrat**: We present a hybrid quantum-classical recurrent neural network (QRNN) architecture in which the recurrent core is realized as a parametrized quantum circuit (PQC) controlled by a classical feedforward network. The hidden state is the quantum state of an $n$-qubit PQC in an exponentially large Hilbert space $\mathbb{C}^{2^n}$, which serves as a coherent recurrent quantum memory. The PQC is unitary by construction, making the hidden-state evolution norm-preserving without external constraints. At each timestep, mid-circuit Pauli expectation-value readouts are combined with the input embedding and processed by the feedforward network, which provides explicit classical nonlinearity. The outputs parametrize the PQC, which updates the hidden state via unitary dynamics. The QRNN is compact and physically consistent, and it unifies (i) unitary recurrence as a high-capacity memory, (ii) partial observation via mid-circuit readouts, and (iii) nonlinear classical control for input-conditioned parametrization. We evaluate the model in simulation with up to 14 qubits on sentiment analysis, MNIST, permuted MNIST, copying memory, and language modeling. For sequence-to-sequence learning, we further devise a soft attention mechanism over the mid-circuit readouts and show its effectiveness for machine translation. To our knowledge, this is the first model (RNN or otherwise) grounded in quantum operations to achieve competitive performance against strong classical baselines across a broad class of sequence-learning tasks.





# robot
## TWIST2: Scalable, Portable, and Holistic Humanoid Data Collection System
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2511.02832v1
- **Authors**: ['Yanjie Ze', 'Siheng Zhao', 'Weizhuo Wang', 'Angjoo Kanazawa', 'Rocky Duan', 'Pieter Abbeel', 'Guanya Shi', 'Jiajun Wu', 'C. Karen Liu']
- **Abstrat**: Large-scale data has driven breakthroughs in robotics, from language models to vision-language-action models in bimanual manipulation. However, humanoid robotics lacks equally effective data collection frameworks. Existing humanoid teleoperation systems either use decoupled control or depend on expensive motion capture setups. We introduce TWIST2, a portable, mocap-free humanoid teleoperation and data collection system that preserves full whole-body control while advancing scalability. Our system leverages PICO4U VR for obtaining real-time whole-body human motions, with a custom 2-DoF robot neck (cost around $250) for egocentric vision, enabling holistic human-to-humanoid control. We demonstrate long-horizon dexterous and mobile humanoid skills and we can collect 100 demonstrations in 15 minutes with an almost 100% success rate. Building on this pipeline, we propose a hierarchical visuomotor policy framework that autonomously controls the full humanoid body based on egocentric vision. Our visuomotor policy successfully demonstrates whole-body dexterous manipulation and dynamic kicking tasks. The entire system is fully reproducible and open-sourced at https://yanjieze.com/TWIST2 . Our collected dataset is also open-sourced at https://twist-data.github.io .





## Imagine Beyond! Distributionally Robust Auto-Encoding for State Space Coverage in Online Reinforcement Learning
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2505.17830v3
- **Authors**: ['Nicolas Castanet', 'Olivier Sigaud', 'Sylvain Lamprier']
- **Abstrat**: Goal-Conditioned Reinforcement Learning (GCRL) enables agents to autonomously acquire diverse behaviors, but faces major challenges in visual environments due to high-dimensional, semantically sparse observations. In the online setting, where agents learn representations while exploring, the latent space evolves with the agent's policy, to capture newly discovered areas of the environment. However, without incentivization to maximize state coverage in the representation, classical approaches based on auto-encoders may converge to latent spaces that over-represent a restricted set of states frequently visited by the agent. This is exacerbated in an intrinsic motivation setting, where the agent uses the distribution encoded in the latent space to sample the goals it learns to master. To address this issue, we propose to progressively enforce distributional shifts towards a uniform distribution over the full state space, to ensure a full coverage of skills that can be learned in the environment. We introduce DRAG (Distributionally Robust Auto-Encoding for GCRL), a method that combines the $\beta$-VAE framework with Distributionally Robust Optimization. DRAG leverages an adversarial neural weighter of training states of the VAE, to account for the mismatch between the current data distribution and unseen parts of the environment. This allows the agent to construct semantically meaningful latent spaces beyond its immediate experience. Our approach improves state space coverage and downstream control performance on hard exploration environments such as mazes and robotic control involving walls to bypass, without pre-training nor prior environment knowledge.




