# soft
# robot
## Choreographing a World of Dynamic Objects
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2601.04194v1
- **Authors**: ['Yanzhe Lyu', 'Chen Geng', 'Karthik Dharmarajan', 'Yunzhi Zhang', 'Hadi Alzayer', 'Shangzhe Wu', 'Jiajun Wu']
- **Abstrat**: Dynamic objects in our physical 4D (3D + time) world are constantly evolving, deforming, and interacting with other objects, leading to diverse 4D scene dynamics. In this paper, we present a universal generative pipeline, CHORD, for CHOReographing Dynamic objects and scenes and synthesizing this type of phenomena. Traditional rule-based graphics pipelines to create these dynamics are based on category-specific heuristics, yet are labor-intensive and not scalable. Recent learning-based methods typically demand large-scale datasets, which may not cover all object categories in interest. Our approach instead inherits the universality from the video generative models by proposing a distillation-based pipeline to extract the rich Lagrangian motion information hidden in the Eulerian representations of 2D videos. Our method is universal, versatile, and category-agnostic. We demonstrate its effectiveness by conducting experiments to generate a diverse range of multi-body 4D dynamics, show its advantage compared to existing methods, and demonstrate its applicability in generating robotics manipulation policies. Project page: https://yanzhelyu.github.io/chord





## Embedding Autonomous Agents in Resource-Constrained Robotic Platforms
- **Url**: http://arxiv.org/abs/2601.04191v1
- **Authors**: ['Negar Halakou', 'Juan F. Gutierrez', 'Ye Sun', 'Han Jiang', 'Xueming Wu', 'Yilun Song', 'Andres Gomez']
- **Abstrat**: Many embedded devices operate under resource constraints and in dynamic environments, requiring local decision-making capabilities. Enabling devices to make independent decisions in such environments can improve the responsiveness of the system and reduce the dependence on constant external control. In this work, we integrate an autonomous agent, programmed using AgentSpeak, with a small two-wheeled robot that explores a maze using its own decision-making and sensor data. Experimental results show that the agent successfully solved the maze in 59 seconds using 287 reasoning cycles, with decision phases taking less than one millisecond. These results indicate that the reasoning process is efficient enough for real-time execution on resource-constrained hardware. This integration demonstrates how high-level agent-based control can be applied to resource-constrained embedded systems for autonomous operation.




